BLoC FLoC (#130)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-05-24-opt-out-of-google-floc-tracking-in-rails.md

---
title: "Opt out of Google’s FLoC User Tracking in Rails"
description: "FLoC Off"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2021/opt-out-of-google-floc-tracking"
  alt: "V for Vendetta-style Guy Fawes masks"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/RlLP5fUh2m0"
  credit: " Ahmed Zayan"
---

> Google has recently built user-tracking directly into Chrome. This new tracking technology is named [Federated Learning of Cohorts](https://blog.google/products/chrome/privacy-sustainability-and-the-importance-of-and/) (shortened to <abbr title="Federated Learning of Cohorts">FLoC</abbr>).

Reviewer: *user tracking

*This new technology

Author: ```suggestion
Google has recently built user tracking directly into Chrome. This new technology is named [Federated Learning of Cohorts](https://blog.google/products/chrome/privacy-sustainability-and-the-importance-of-and/) (shortened to <abbr title="Federated Learning of Cohorts">FLoC</abbr>).
```

## Instead of...

> ...doing nothing.

Reviewer: *doing nothing...

Author: ```suggestion
doing nothing...
```

## Add...

> ...a custom response header to opt your application, and thus your users, out of this user-tracking.

Reviewer: *user tracking.

Author: ```suggestion
...a custom response header to opt your application, and thus your users, out of this user tracking.
```

### `config/appliction.rb`

```ruby
# ...
module YourAppName
  class Application < Rails::Application
    # ...
    config.action_dispatch.default_headers["Permissions-Policy"] = "interest-cohort=()"
    # ...
  end
end
```

## Why?

> The [<abbr title="Electronic Frontier Foundation">EFF</abbr>](https://www.eff.org) has a detailed breakdown of [why FLoC is a bad idea](https://amifloced.org) as well as checking if you’re included in their initial roll out.

Reviewer: *as well as away to check if...

Author: ```suggestion
The [<abbr title="Electronic Frontier Foundation">EFF</abbr>](https://www.eff.org) has a detailed breakdown of [why FLoC is a bad idea](https://amifloced.org) as well as a way to check if you’re included in their initial roll out.
```

> In short it's not just bad because advertisers can track you around the internet (still creepy after all these years!) but also because it further entrenches Google’s advertising monopoly by leveraging their dominance in the browser market.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short, it's not just bad because advertisers can track you around the Internet (still creepy after all these years!) but also because Google are leveraging their dominance in the browser market to further entrench their advertising monopoly.
```

> The core Wordpress team are considering [treating FLoC like a security concern](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2021/04/18/proposal-treat-floc-as-a-security-concern/) and Wordpress powers over two fifths of the Internet, so you’ll be in good company.

Reviewer: *two-fifths

Author: ```suggestion
The core Wordpress team are considering [treating FLoC like a security concern](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2021/04/18/proposal-treat-floc-as-a-security-concern/) and Wordpress powers over two-fifths of the Internet, so you’ll be in good company.
```

You might also might want to personally switch to Safari or Firefox or similar, even for your web development needs.

## Why not?

> Maybe you don’t mind about advertising tracking your users around the internet—which is a reasonable position.

Reviewer: *Internet, which

Author: ```suggestion
Maybe you don’t mind about advertising tracking your users around the internet, which is a reasonable position.
```
